# Petra's notes and reflections  
_by Petra Hermankova_

## The first month (September)
1. Setting up infrastructure is crucial, but people don't really want to invest time in doing so and are mostly keen to start the research. I see great analogy in fieldwork researchers wanting to start the fieldwork while the FAIMS personnel kept annoying them with infrastructure and data modelling. I feel patience during meetings and good and bad examples of how it might end up are getting me somewhere. I have an internal block of some kind that does not allow me to think about the research itself until I have the infrastructure all set, tested, and running, but that might be beacuse I am controll freak and this is the part I am confident in and I know what to do. The research itself is fuzzy and I have no idea what I am going to do, so I am trying to procrastinate it with overorganising everything.
2. All the recent activities associated with the unstable and precarious academic career drained all the energy I have left for research, so I am still trying to set up in the new country and I am not so keen to jump into research as other members of our team might be. I feel I need to pause for a bit, reflect, scope, study the field and then I am ready to say anything or even to make a call or judgement. If anything, I have learnt in the past 9 months when I was unemployed, that personal life should come always first before research if you want to do it longterm. That's why I am a little hesitant to jump into code and projects, before I know the new institution and how the field has changed in the time I was gone. Denmark seems to be a good place for me right now, but it is going to be difficult not to fall into the old traps again.
3. I am slowly implementing the infrastructure that worked well in the past projects, but I have a feeling everyone does that. That's why I feel the mapping of the individual working styles and digital habits it great way how to monitor the changing dynamics within the team.

## The second month (October)
1. I have finally managed to move physically to Aarhus, so the communication with the team is easier as they are mostly working offline, or try not to be too much on Slack or similar. We have a lot of meetings, but I think that's essential in the beginning of any project to set up our expectations, talk about the different ways we work and to, again, to setup the infrastructure. I am hoping as everything settles down, there would be one general meeting a week and then maybe some focused ones for specific projects. There is currently so much to cover that I feel two or three meetings a week are a must, especially with the upcoming workshop and the teaching.
2. As there was a Software Carpentry, Teaching Workshop, and the Digital Research workshop in the last two weeks of October, I had no time for anything. And of course - teaching started and I am a teaching assistant for Adela's Digital Methods. So there goes all my time and I had no real progress on research nor the eResearch, which actually got me thinking about time management and the available tools I could use to help me. So, I have redownloaded Timesheet app to my phone, which I have been succesfuly using to monitor myself in the past) and started recording evering I do for the entire November. I will analyse and reevaluate and reprioritise in December.
3. The question of time management and task management is of great importance to me, because I seem to be spending long hours at work, maybe doing too much of the team baseline work and other admin tasks while other people do fun tasks (research). But currently that's only my assumption and I need to collect solid data and confirm the hypothesis, so there is my time tracking plan. I am going to use:
* Timesheet app on my phone and on my personal google drive where I record all the time I spend working, divided into categories: Research, eResearch, Admin/Service, Teaching (as those are the core categories of my employment and my role here). I have created a series if tags to assign individual time slots, so I can then more easily evaluate the biggest time-consuming tasks and maybe try to condense them or turn them into something more effective.
* I have instantiated my own JIRA to tarck all the stuff I need to do, and I have proposed it to them team to test it and use it for our own task management. Will see how that goes. I will keep on using JIRA at least during the entire November time tracking experiment to see it utility.
* I would like to take my unpaid day off on a regular basis, i.e. every week. It wasn't really happening in the past three weeks and I can see my frustration grew already and at the same time my tolerance towards friction has substantially dropped. It maybe caused by the 190 hours I have worked in October, so I would like to use the time tracking experiment to prevent this from happening in the future, because it can easily affect my work performance and my overall quality of life (and it's not hygge at all).
4. After reading some of Adela's reflections, I have realised I don't like using people's personal GDrive for project. The person may leave, or if they don't use the same data protection standards as you do (two factor authentication, password manager etc.), they can easily expose all of the members of the team and not just the data. One of my worries of having the enterprise GDrive for the group is that the sys-admin will again land on my shoulders, which adds to the time-constraint anxiety I am experiencing.



