# Team Meeting Notes
_by Petra Hermankova_



## Pre-meeting notes, 1st day in the office

_2.9.2019, 	Monday, Petra's office_

- picking up the computer in the morning and setting it up with the IT department
- getting Admin privileges
- downloading and installing the software I am used to work with
- trying to make the hardware to work - getting used to new policies at the new institution is always challenge, there is also a special attitude to technology and infrastructure in Denmark, different from Australia. I feel given more freedom and trust to what I was hired to do. Also in Denmark they have so far all processes fairly well set so I am not dealing with technical and admin nonsense as the first few weeks in Australia. It definitely helps in getting back on track.
- sketching the 3-year personal plan & plan for September
1. Lit review, scoping what's available and in what state
2. Create a research corpus
3. Make it interoperable, normalise
4. Analyse the corpus in order to test the hypothesis (epigraphic infrastructure vs the rise of social complexity)
5. Compare to other LOD resources (cities, roads, enviro, numismatics, Pleiades etc.), with Focus on the research area
6. Produce a longitudinal study of epigraphic habit in the Mediterranean, ideally a book


## Meeting no. 1 - Initial meeting of the team

_3.9.2019, Tuesday, Adela's office_

- introductions of the team, discussing the plans and outcomes of the project (mostly Adela)
- working notes from the meeting: Cliodynamics, P. Turchin, social reactors projects Scott Ortmann, review the current state of digital inf. resources if you want to do your analysis in Denmark but also worldwide + all the steps necessary of a digital workflow; ethnography of a digital project, compare with other projects, proof of concept to solve one of the problematic areas
- DeiC: Danish infrastructure consortium, based on ownCloud that I have worked with in Australia
- Code Refinery at Aarhus Uni - some sort of meetings of code enthusiasts
- Docker - I need to explore a bit more what it does
- Team Overleaf, AU does not provide licenses, but there is TeX community, Antonio will know more as he is LaTeX person
- Christopher Nielbo - CHCS Centre for Computing in Humanities at AU, get in touch with him, sign up for IMC newsletter, Interactive Minds space, Slack channel
- Joshua Skewes, another IT enthousiast at AU
- FAIR data principles -  how to apply them?
- Workflows of digital humanists? Are they even published?

Decide on the following infrastructure:
1. Chat
2. Shared Library
3. Website
4. University domain?
5. Name and branding

- Survey of digital practices for the faculty?
- 30 Oct talk about methods, tools, 3 different databases, the evolution of my own research


## Meeting no. 2 - Postdocs meet to discuss infrastructure

_5.9.2019, Thursday, lunchroom_

- discussing the project's infrastructure and branding
- deciding what is going to be our name and where our focus should be, so it is obvious from the name itself
- we came up with several ideas but no consensus was met
- I am in charge of setting up Github and the website from githubpages; I have set up Slack and OSF
- Vojtech is in charge of exploring Google Suite or any other options; he also set up Trello, Zotero
- Antionio is in charge of exploring Deic infrastructure

### Progress of the initial survey (subproject: the evolution of digital teamwork)
- I started designing a simple survey for our team but I kept expanding the questions and the scope, so now I have relatively large survey, but we have answered almost all the questions during our first few meetings; I am not sure the survey is not usable for any purpose... maybe I should take few steps back and create a very simple survey to monitor State 0 - how we were used to work before we became members of the team, so we can later on monitor the progress. I can salvage the current survey for later, when we ask other people
- Main problem: I tried to include everything, but being pressed for time, I did not have or did not stick to the original research idea
- Solution: Start over, make it simple and generalised.
- The purpose of the initial survey was to record how the individual members of the team are used to work.


## Meeting no. 3 - Team lunch in the Dokk1

_6.9.2019, Friday, Dokk1_

- discussing the infrastructure and proposed solutions
- no consesnsus on the name yet
- division of software research tasks: 
1. Vojtech is going to explore the Google Suite
2. Antonio is in charge or researching DeiC and their alternative to G Suite
3. Petra is in charge of creating Github organisation and creating a dummy Githubpages website
- everyone keeps their own digital lab notebook / research diary, so we can later retrace back steps and decisions


## Meeting no. 4 - online via Skype

_19.9.2019, Thursday, Skype_

- meeting without Adela; we wanted to update ourselves and discuss the progress before the call with Adela on Tuesday the next week
- setting up the meeting agenda with interactive links, so we all on th esame board and can prepare ahead of the meeting on Tuesday
- Deic seems not so usable, but Vojtech was experimenting with ScienceData.dk which we all tested too. It seems better and we can potentially link it with Nextcloud so it is some alternative to Google Suite
- Vojtech also found Pico Nextcloud website which could be alternative to Githubpages
- We have created a shared document on Google Drive with links important for the project where everyone can contribute
- I have modified a little the folders in the shared Google Drive so they make more sense - at least to me :) and no one was complaining
- Discussion about the datasharing and backup strategies, but no clear consensus. We need more testing and more time spend poking at ScienceData and Nextcloud for teamwork, which I unfortunatelly don't have
- Discussion of the Affluence hypothesis and potential research subprojects
- Zotero, Slack, Trello seems to be working for everyone
- no consensus on the calendar, nor the roadmap yet


## Meeting no. 5 - online via Skype, Aarhus - Prague

_24.9.2019, Tuesday, Adela's office - Skype_

- Agenda circulated via shared doc in Google Drive[agenda here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1r37gv2yymBYn7X4xm3LY5_eb-5PBTVyNxYQCuamwGNo), so everyone can get ready and the call is more organised
Notes from the call: 
1. explore the calendar in Outlook and sharing of calendar, to promote events at Uni level
2. Hacky hours, Fridays 1pm, monthly, Luke Johnston; mostly R, but could be useful to other people, library
3. Carpentries - follow slack and signup, Code Refineries as well, but different
4. Faculty of Communications - Digital Literacy Group, Digital Brownbag
5. 23 Oct, signup for teaching, programming historian, report back, do they know carpentries?
6. 30 Oct, planning; get ready 10 min presentation about myself, project
7. Check Cyberduck and CloudMounter to work with ScienceData.dk


1. We need to decide on our social media presence for research and on our branding:
- Name, Icon, Logo, Colours, Twitter, ORCID, Google Scholar team, Research Gate, Academia
2. We need to decide on web structure and populate it


## Meeting no. 6 - the nature of archaeological data
_1.10. 2019, Tuesday, Adela's office_

- [link to agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14H6vAJi-2SQK1-xBAWls6Klkx75kTIHuvgGAu0z2uik)
- writing a premeeting agenda is now a habit and a good practice, everyone gets a chance to prepare in advance, add their own stuff, link it to other materials or sites and then get back to it if necessary; not sure if we need to add actionables as part of the agenda, but so far everyone keeps their own tasks in mind. Maybe even talk management or some version of simplfied JIRA would be nice once we start actually doing a lot of stuff. I will look more into tickets on GitHub for my own purpose. Not so much if others are that keen on using Github.
- I have finally migrated to Aarhus as of today, so finally I will have time to sit, plan, and think
- for most of the meeting Adela was introducing the TRAP datasets to non-archeologists
- we were discussing the workshop and some practicalities, program, guests etc.
- workshop: I have decided to create a promo flyer in ConTeXt, so in order to do that I installed a server on my personal Linux computer and used some of old FAIMS templates and adjusted them to myself

## Meeting no. 7 - workshop planning
_3.10. 2019, Thursday, lunch room_

- no agenda as the meeting was not planned
- more input from the other members of the team on my flyer, adjusting, printing
- final version on Friday, circulated online
- we also decided to create a project Twitter, which I have done on Friday and shared the login credentials with everyone so they can edit or add stuff if anyone is interested
- Our Twitter handle is @sdam-au and I am trying to promote the project around Aarhus, Denmark, and worldwide
- I have also worked on the website and created a template for others to fill in with their personal informations and populate with photos. So far it is working quite well as people are comfortable with GitHub. We have also discussed the structure of the web and so far we will have: the index main page, the Team page, the social & calendar page, the Case Studies page and the Blog. Some of the pages are not visible yet, but that's because there is no content yet. As we grow, we will be able to add more stuff, more pages, etc. 
- we also went to the Center for Humanities Computing Aarhus meeting at 1-3pm, held at the Interactive Minds centre and introduced ourselves
- we need to follow up on the access to the Voyant server, as well as on website for our project

## Meeting no. 8 - the infrastructure & other business
_8.10. 2019, Tuesday, Adela's office_

- [link to agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i64npFIXkGZezmsUM21ZIyTvnG6Xd4wF-ODsQtTi_TU/edit#heading=h.8wmdx636lwch)
- a lot of events happening, debrief, planning
- update on workshop planning: zoom, program, catering, participants etc.
- website discussion continued, I have created a branding document for future use, Antonio will work on presentation template
- issues of sharing our group calendars via university's outlook are more than suboptimal, I have requested at least SDAM-AU mailing list to be created, so we will see if that happens
- future discussion on reserach diaries and notes, possibly Friday
- SDAM should exist also in Pure, Adela is in charge of creating it
- short demo on how the website works, minor tweaks
- tracking the teaching and service via a web form

## Meeting no. 9 - the teaching meeting
_10.10. 2019, Thursday, Adela's office_

- we were discussing the approaching six week intensive course in Digital Humanities Adela is teaching and we will be co-teaching
- we have also discussed Vojtech's talk on the evolution of moralising gods in Greek texts that is supposed to be one of his case studies

## Meeting no. 9 - the research diaries
_11.10. 2019, Thursday, Adela's office_

- we should somewhat consolidate the way we write our diaries and reflections, so it is later usable. SO far everyone uses a diferrent strategy, but I think once we have a template, everyone is more than happy to follow it. SOmeone needs to create that template, Antonio is working on somethin in LaTeX.
- we should also circulate the program to the speakers

## Meeting no. 10 
_15.10. 2019, Tuesday, Adela's office_

- workshop organisation, UATs, teaching digital methods

## Meeting no. 11
_05.11. 2019, Tuesday, 1461-516_

- post workshop debrief, software carpentry debate, admin talk, epigraphic data talk, UATs and more infrastructure planning

## Meeting no. 12 - Epigraphic datasets
_08.11. 2019, Friday, 1461-516_

